README.md, before:

# DeepOSM [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/trailbehind/DeepOSM.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/trailbehind/DeepOSM)

Classify roads and features in satellite imagery, by training neural networks with OpenStreetMap (OSM) data. 

DeepOSM can:

* Download a chunk of satellite imagery
* Download OSM data that shows roads/features for that area
* Generate training and evaluation data
* Display predictions of mis-registered roads in OSM data, or display raw predictions of ON/OFF

Running the code is as easy as install Docker, make dev, and run a script. 

Contributions are welcome. Open an issue if you want to discuss something to do, or [email me](mailto:andrew@gaiagps.com).

## Default Data/Accuracy

By default, DeepOSM will analyze about 200 sq. km of area in Delaware. DeepOSM will

* predict if the center 9px of a 64px tile contains road.
* use the infrared (IR) band and RGB bands.
* be 75-80% accurate overall, training only for a minute or so.
* use a single fully-connected relu layer in [TensorFlow](https://www.tensorflow.org/).
* render, as JPEGs, "false positive" predictions in the OSM data - i.e. where OSM lists a road, but DeepOSM thinks there isn't one.

![NAIP with Ways and Predictions](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Cjk6fADUYAE0wvh.jpg)

## Background on Data - NAIPs and OSM PBF

For training data, DeepOSM cuts tiles out of [NAIP images](http://www.fsa.usda.gov/programs-and-services/aerial-photography/imagery-programs/naip-imagery/), which provide 1-meter-per-pixel resolution, with RGB+infrared data bands.

For training labels, DeepOSM uses PBF extracts of OSM data, which contain features/ways in binary format that can be munged with Python.

The [NAIPs come from a requester pays bucket on S3 set up by Mapbox](http://www.slideshare.net/AmazonWebServices/open-data-innovation-building-on-open-data-sets-for-innovative-applications), and the OSM extracts come [from geofabrik](http://download.geofabrik.de/).

## Install Requirements

DeepOSM has been run successfully on both Mac (10.x) and Linux (14.04 and 16.04). You need at least 4GB of memory.

### AWS Credentials

You need AWS credentials to download NAIPs from an S3 requester-pays bucket. This only costs a few cents for a bunch of images, but you need a credit card on file.

 * get your [AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID and AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY from AWS](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-getting-started.html)

 * export them as environment variables (and maybe add to your bash or zprofile)

```
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID='FOO'
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY='BAR'
```

### Install Docker

First, [install a Docker Binary](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/).

I also needed to set my VirtualBox default memory to 4GB, when running on a Mac. This is easy:

 * start Docker, per the install instructions
 * stop Docker
 * open VirtualBox, and increase the memory of the VM Docker made

### Run Scripts

Start Docker, then run:

```bash
make dev-gpu
```

Or if you don't have a capable GPU, run:

```bash
make dev
```

### Download NAIP, PBF, and Analyze

Inside Docker, the following Python scripts will work. This will download all source data, tile it into training/test data and labels, train the neural net, and generate image and text output. 

The default data is six NAIPs, which get tiled into 64x64x4 bands of data (RGB-IR bands). The training labels derive from PBF files that overlap the NAIPs.

```
python bin/create_training_data.py
python bin/train_neural_net.py
```

For output, DeepOSM will produce some console logs, and then JPEGs of the ways, labels, and predictions overlaid on the tiff.

### Jupyter Notebook

Alternately, development/research can be done via jupyter notebooks:

```bash
make notebook
```

To access the notebook via a browser on your host machine, find the IP VirtualBox is giving your default docker container by running:

```bash
docker-machine ls

NAME      ACTIVE   DRIVER       STATE     URL                         SWARM   DOCKER    ERRORS
default   *        virtualbox   Running   tcp://192.168.99.100:2376           v1.10.3
```

The notebook server is accessible via port 8888, so in this case you'd go to:
http://192.168.99.100:8888

### Readings

* [Learning to Detect Roads in High-Resolution Aerial
Images](http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.232.1679&rep=rep1&type=pdf) (Hinton) 
* [Machine Learning for Aerial Image Labeling](https://www.cs.toronto.edu/~vmnih/docs/Mnih_Volodymyr_PhD_Thesis.pdf)- Minh's 2013 thesis, student of Hinton's
best/recent paper on doing this, great success with these methods
* Similar Efforts with OSM Data
    * [OSM-Crosswalk-Detection](https://github.com/geometalab/OSM-Crosswalk-Detection) - uses Keras to detect crosswalks, a class project (Fall 2015)
    * [OSM-HOT-ConvNet](https://github.com/larsroemheld/OSM-HOT-ConvNet) - attempted use for disaster response, author thinks it's only 69% accurate at pixel level (fall 2016)
    * [Terrapattern](http://www.terrapattern.com/) - (spring 2016) - detect similar images, such as pools, boat wakes, or other patterns journalists/researchers might be interested in - Carnegie Mellon researchers, open source
    * [Skynet Data](https://github.com/developmentseed/skynet-data) - (spring 2016) - data pipeline for machine learning with OpenStreetMap
    * [Full implementation of Mnih's CNN with Massachusetts data](https://github.com/mitmul/ssai-cnn)

* [Parsing Natural Scenes and Natural Language
with Recursive Neural Networks (RNNs)](http://ai.stanford.edu/~ang/papers/icml11-ParsingWithRecursiveNeuralNetworks.pdf)
* Background on Neural Networks and Deep Learning
    * [MNIST Data and Background](http://yann.lecun.com/exdb/mnist/)
    * all the other links to Nielsen’s book and [Colah’s blog](http://colah.github.io/posts/2015-08-Backprop/)
    * [original Information Theory paper by Shannon](http://worrydream.com/refs/Shannon%20-%20A%20Mathematical%20Theory%20of%20Communication.pdf)

[Also see a work journal here](http://trailbehind.github.io/DeepOSM/).

### Papers - Relevant Maybe

* [Aerial image geolocalization from recognition and matching of roads and intersections - May 2016](https://arxiv.org/abs/1605.08323)

* [Uses a large window to improve predictions, trying to capture broad network topology.](https://www.inf.ethz.ch/personal/ladickyl/roads_gcpr14.pdf)

* [Automatically extract roads with no human labels. Not that accurate, could work for preprocessing to detect roads.](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/263892800_Tensor-Cuts_A_simultaneous_multi-type_feature_extractor_and_classifier_and_its_application_to_road_extraction_from_satellite_images)

### Papers - Not All that Relevant

* [Uses map data and shapes of overpasses to then detect pictures of the objects? Seems like a cool paper to read if it was free.](http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2424336)

* [New technique for classification of sub-half-meter data into different zones.](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/login.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6827949&url=http%3A%2F%2Fieeexplore.ieee.org%2Fxpls%2Fabs_all.jsp%3Farnumber%3D6827949)

* [Couldn't access text, focused on using lidar data.](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/login.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6238909&url=http%3A%2F%2Fieeexplore.ieee.org%2Fxpls%2Fabs_all.jsp%3Farnumber%3D6238909)

* [Proposes a way to extract network topology, and maybe this can be used as a post processor?](http://www.cv-foundation.org/openaccess/content_cvpr_2013/html/Wegner_A_Higher-Order_CRF_2013_CVPR_paper.html)

### Papers to Review

Recent Recommendations

* FIND - have you seen a paper from a few years ago about estimating OSM completeness by comparing size of compressed satellite images vs number of osm nodes

* READ - this presentation on using GPS traces to suggest OSM edits (Strava/Telenav): http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:VoiCwRHOyLUJ:stateofthemap.us/map-tracing-for-millennials/+&cd=3&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us

#### Citing Mnih and Hinton

I am reviewing these papers from Google Scholar that both cite the key papers and seem relevant to the topic. 

* http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/login.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6602035&url=http%3A%2F%2Fieeexplore.ieee.org%2Fxpls%2Fabs_all.jsp%3Farnumber%3D6602035

* http://www.cv-foundation.org/openaccess/content_cvpr_workshops_2015/W13/html/Paisitkriangkrai_Effective_Semantic_Pixel_2015_CVPR_paper.html

* http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/15481603.2013.802870

* https://www.computer.org/csdl/proceedings/icpr/2014/5209/00/5209d708-abs.html

* http://opticalengineering.spiedigitallibrary.org/article.aspx?articleid=1679147

* http://proceedings.spiedigitallibrary.org/proceeding.aspx?articleid=1354584

* http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/summary?doi=10.1.1.309.8565

* https://www.itc.nl/library/papers_2012/msc/gem/shaoqing.pdf

* http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/login.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7326745&url=http%3A%2F%2Fieeexplore.ieee.org%2Fxpls%2Fabs_all.jsp%3Farnumber%3D7326745

* http://proceedings.spiedigitallibrary.org/proceeding.aspx?articleid=2191094

* http://arxiv.org/abs/1509.03602

* http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/login.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7112625&url=http%3A%2F%2Fieeexplore.ieee.org%2Fxpls%2Fabs_all.jsp%3Farnumber%3D7112625

* http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0924271615001690

* http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6137

* https://www.itc.nl/external/ISPRS_WGIII4/ISPRSIII_4_Test_results/papers/Onera_2D_label_Vaih.pdf

* http://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-23528-8_33#page-1

* http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06163

* http://www.mdpi.com/2072-4292/8/4/329

* http://arxiv.org/abs/1510.00098

* http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10489-016-0762-6

* http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/01431161.2015.1054049

* http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/login.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7393563&url=http%3A%2F%2Fieeexplore.ieee.org%2Fxpls%2Fabs_all.jsp%3Farnumber%3D7393563

* http://www.cv-foundation.org/openaccess/content_iccv_2015/html/Mattyus_Enhancing_Road_Maps_ICCV_2015_paper.html

* http://www.cv-foundation.org/openaccess/content_iccv_2015/html/Zheng_Minimal_Solvers_for_ICCV_2015_paper.html

* http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6136

* http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.681.1695&rep=rep1&type=pdf

* http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/login.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7120492&url=http%3A%2F%2Fieeexplore.ieee.org%2Fxpls%2Fabs_all.jsp%3Farnumber%3D7120492

* http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.3846/20296991.2014.890271

* http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/login.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7362660&url=http%3A%2F%2Fieeexplore.ieee.org%2Fxpls%2Fabs_all.jsp%3Farnumber%3D7362660

* http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/login.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7414402&url=http%3A%2F%2Fieeexplore.ieee.org%2Fxpls%2Fabs_all.jsp%3Farnumber%3D7414402

* http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/login.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6663455&url=http%3A%2F%2Fieeexplore.ieee.org%2Fxpls%2Fabs_all.jsp%3Farnumber%3D6663455

* http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/login.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7337372&url=http%3A%2F%2Fieeexplore.ieee.org%2Fxpls%2Fabs_all.jsp%3Farnumber%3D7337372

* https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Moslem_Ouled_Sghaier/publication/280655680_Road_Extraction_From_Very_High_Resolution_Remote_Sensing_Optical_Images_Based_on_Texture_Analysis_and_Beamlet_Transform/links/55c0d9da08ae092e96678ff3.pdf

* http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/login.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7159022&url=http%3A%2F%2Fieeexplore.ieee.org%2Fxpls%2Fabs_all.jsp%3Farnumber%3D7159022

* http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0303243415300283

* http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2666389

* http://www.ijicic.org/ijicic-15-04045.pdf

### Original Idea

This was the general idea to start, and working with TMS tiles sort of worked (see first 50 or so commits), so DeepOSM got switched to better data:

![Deep OSM Project](https://gaiagps.mybalsamiq.com/mockups/4278030.png?key=1e42f249214928d1fa7b17cf866401de0c2af867)

Commit message:

Add instructions to install nvidia-docker on linux

README.md, after:

# DeepOSM [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/trailbehind/DeepOSM.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/trailbehind/DeepOSM)

Classify roads and features in satellite imagery, by training neural networks with OpenStreetMap (OSM) data. 

DeepOSM can:

* Download a chunk of satellite imagery
* Download OSM data that shows roads/features for that area
* Generate training and evaluation data
* Display predictions of mis-registered roads in OSM data, or display raw predictions of ON/OFF

Running the code is as easy as install Docker, make dev, and run a script. 

Contributions are welcome. Open an issue if you want to discuss something to do, or [email me](mailto:andrew@gaiagps.com).

## Default Data/Accuracy

By default, DeepOSM will analyze about 200 sq. km of area in Delaware. DeepOSM will

* predict if the center 9px of a 64px tile contains road.
* use the infrared (IR) band and RGB bands.
* be 75-80% accurate overall, training only for a minute or so.
* use a single fully-connected relu layer in [TensorFlow](https://www.tensorflow.org/).
* render, as JPEGs, "false positive" predictions in the OSM data - i.e. where OSM lists a road, but DeepOSM thinks there isn't one.

![NAIP with Ways and Predictions](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Cjk6fADUYAE0wvh.jpg)

## Background on Data - NAIPs and OSM PBF

For training data, DeepOSM cuts tiles out of [NAIP images](http://www.fsa.usda.gov/programs-and-services/aerial-photography/imagery-programs/naip-imagery/), which provide 1-meter-per-pixel resolution, with RGB+infrared data bands.

For training labels, DeepOSM uses PBF extracts of OSM data, which contain features/ways in binary format that can be munged with Python.

The [NAIPs come from a requester pays bucket on S3 set up by Mapbox](http://www.slideshare.net/AmazonWebServices/open-data-innovation-building-on-open-data-sets-for-innovative-applications), and the OSM extracts come [from geofabrik](http://download.geofabrik.de/).

## Install Requirements

DeepOSM has been run successfully on both Mac (10.x) and Linux (14.04 and 16.04). You need at least 4GB of memory.

### AWS Credentials

You need AWS credentials to download NAIPs from an S3 requester-pays bucket. This only costs a few cents for a bunch of images, but you need a credit card on file.

 * get your [AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID and AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY from AWS](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-getting-started.html)

 * export them as environment variables (and maybe add to your bash or zprofile)

```
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID='FOO'
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY='BAR'
```

### Install Docker

First, [install a Docker Binary](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/).

I also needed to set my VirtualBox default memory to 4GB, when running on a Mac. This is easy:

 * start Docker, per the install instructions
 * stop Docker
 * open VirtualBox, and increase the memory of the VM Docker made

### (GPU Only) Install nvidia-docker

For Linux installations of DeepOSM, nvidia-docker can be downloaded
and installed using the instructions available at
[NVIDIA's github page](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-docker/wiki/Installation).
As mentioned on that page, you will need appropriate NVIDIA drivers
installed alongside `nvidia-modprobe`, which may already be available
with your distribution, or can be downloaded from
[NVIDIA's drivers page](http://www.nvidia.com/object/unix.html).

Unfortunately, `nvidia-docker` is not presently available on Mac OSX
due to limitations of the hypervisor that runs Docker (see
[OSX Support #101](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-docker/issues/101)).

### Run Scripts

Start Docker, then run:

```bash
make dev-gpu
```

Or if you don't have a capable GPU, run:

```bash
make dev
```

### Download NAIP, PBF, and Analyze

Inside Docker, the following Python scripts will work. This will download all source data, tile it into training/test data and labels, train the neural net, and generate image and text output. 

The default data is six NAIPs, which get tiled into 64x64x4 bands of data (RGB-IR bands). The training labels derive from PBF files that overlap the NAIPs.

```
python bin/create_training_data.py
python bin/train_neural_net.py
```

For output, DeepOSM will produce some console logs, and then JPEGs of the ways, labels, and predictions overlaid on the tiff.

### Jupyter Notebook

Alternately, development/research can be done via jupyter notebooks:

```bash
make notebook
```

To access the notebook via a browser on your host machine, find the IP VirtualBox is giving your default docker container by running:

```bash
docker-machine ls

NAME      ACTIVE   DRIVER       STATE     URL                         SWARM   DOCKER    ERRORS
default   *        virtualbox   Running   tcp://192.168.99.100:2376           v1.10.3
```

The notebook server is accessible via port 8888, so in this case you'd go to:
http://192.168.99.100:8888

### Readings

* [Learning to Detect Roads in High-Resolution Aerial
Images](http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.232.1679&rep=rep1&type=pdf) (Hinton) 
* [Machine Learning for Aerial Image Labeling](https://www.cs.toronto.edu/~vmnih/docs/Mnih_Volodymyr_PhD_Thesis.pdf)- Minh's 2013 thesis, student of Hinton's
best/recent paper on doing this, great success with these methods
* Similar Efforts with OSM Data
    * [OSM-Crosswalk-Detection](https://github.com/geometalab/OSM-Crosswalk-Detection) - uses Keras to detect crosswalks, a class project (Fall 2015)
    * [OSM-HOT-ConvNet](https://github.com/larsroemheld/OSM-HOT-ConvNet) - attempted use for disaster response, author thinks it's only 69% accurate at pixel level (fall 2016)
    * [Terrapattern](http://www.terrapattern.com/) - (spring 2016) - detect similar images, such as pools, boat wakes, or other patterns journalists/researchers might be interested in - Carnegie Mellon researchers, open source
    * [Skynet Data](https://github.com/developmentseed/skynet-data) - (spring 2016) - data pipeline for machine learning with OpenStreetMap
    * [Full implementation of Mnih's CNN with Massachusetts data](https://github.com/mitmul/ssai-cnn)

* [Parsing Natural Scenes and Natural Language
with Recursive Neural Networks (RNNs)](http://ai.stanford.edu/~ang/papers/icml11-ParsingWithRecursiveNeuralNetworks.pdf)
* Background on Neural Networks and Deep Learning
    * [MNIST Data and Background](http://yann.lecun.com/exdb/mnist/)
    * all the other links to Nielsen’s book and [Colah’s blog](http://colah.github.io/posts/2015-08-Backprop/)
    * [original Information Theory paper by Shannon](http://worrydream.com/refs/Shannon%20-%20A%20Mathematical%20Theory%20of%20Communication.pdf)

[Also see a work journal here](http://trailbehind.github.io/DeepOSM/).

### Papers - Relevant Maybe

* [Aerial image geolocalization from recognition and matching of roads and intersections - May 2016](https://arxiv.org/abs/1605.08323)

* [Uses a large window to improve predictions, trying to capture broad network topology.](https://www.inf.ethz.ch/personal/ladickyl/roads_gcpr14.pdf)

* [Automatically extract roads with no human labels. Not that accurate, could work for preprocessing to detect roads.](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/263892800_Tensor-Cuts_A_simultaneous_multi-type_feature_extractor_and_classifier_and_its_application_to_road_extraction_from_satellite_images)

### Papers - Not All that Relevant

* [Uses map data and shapes of overpasses to then detect pictures of the objects? Seems like a cool paper to read if it was free.](http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2424336)

* [New technique for classification of sub-half-meter data into different zones.](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/login.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6827949&url=http%3A%2F%2Fieeexplore.ieee.org%2Fxpls%2Fabs_all.jsp%3Farnumber%3D6827949)

* [Couldn't access text, focused on using lidar data.](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/login.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6238909&url=http%3A%2F%2Fieeexplore.ieee.org%2Fxpls%2Fabs_all.jsp%3Farnumber%3D6238909)

* [Proposes a way to extract network topology, and maybe this can be used as a post processor?](http://www.cv-foundation.org/openaccess/content_cvpr_2013/html/Wegner_A_Higher-Order_CRF_2013_CVPR_paper.html)

### Papers to Review

Recent Recommendations

* FIND - have you seen a paper from a few years ago about estimating OSM completeness by comparing size of compressed satellite images vs number of osm nodes

* READ - this presentation on using GPS traces to suggest OSM edits (Strava/Telenav): http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:VoiCwRHOyLUJ:stateofthemap.us/map-tracing-for-millennials/+&cd=3&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us

#### Citing Mnih and Hinton

I am reviewing these papers from Google Scholar that both cite the key papers and seem relevant to the topic. 

* http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/login.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6602035&url=http%3A%2F%2Fieeexplore.ieee.org%2Fxpls%2Fabs_all.jsp%3Farnumber%3D6602035

* http://www.cv-foundation.org/openaccess/content_cvpr_workshops_2015/W13/html/Paisitkriangkrai_Effective_Semantic_Pixel_2015_CVPR_paper.html

* http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/15481603.2013.802870

* https://www.computer.org/csdl/proceedings/icpr/2014/5209/00/5209d708-abs.html

* http://opticalengineering.spiedigitallibrary.org/article.aspx?articleid=1679147

* http://proceedings.spiedigitallibrary.org/proceeding.aspx?articleid=1354584

* http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/summary?doi=10.1.1.309.8565

* https://www.itc.nl/library/papers_2012/msc/gem/shaoqing.pdf

* http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/login.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7326745&url=http%3A%2F%2Fieeexplore.ieee.org%2Fxpls%2Fabs_all.jsp%3Farnumber%3D7326745

* http://proceedings.spiedigitallibrary.org/proceeding.aspx?articleid=2191094

* http://arxiv.org/abs/1509.03602

* http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/login.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7112625&url=http%3A%2F%2Fieeexplore.ieee.org%2Fxpls%2Fabs_all.jsp%3Farnumber%3D7112625

* http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0924271615001690

* http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6137

* https://www.itc.nl/external/ISPRS_WGIII4/ISPRSIII_4_Test_results/papers/Onera_2D_label_Vaih.pdf

* http://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-23528-8_33#page-1

* http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06163

* http://www.mdpi.com/2072-4292/8/4/329

* http://arxiv.org/abs/1510.00098

* http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10489-016-0762-6

* http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/01431161.2015.1054049

* http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/login.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7393563&url=http%3A%2F%2Fieeexplore.ieee.org%2Fxpls%2Fabs_all.jsp%3Farnumber%3D7393563

* http://www.cv-foundation.org/openaccess/content_iccv_2015/html/Mattyus_Enhancing_Road_Maps_ICCV_2015_paper.html

* http://www.cv-foundation.org/openaccess/content_iccv_2015/html/Zheng_Minimal_Solvers_for_ICCV_2015_paper.html

* http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.6136

* http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.681.1695&rep=rep1&type=pdf

* http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/login.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7120492&url=http%3A%2F%2Fieeexplore.ieee.org%2Fxpls%2Fabs_all.jsp%3Farnumber%3D7120492

* http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.3846/20296991.2014.890271

* http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/login.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7362660&url=http%3A%2F%2Fieeexplore.ieee.org%2Fxpls%2Fabs_all.jsp%3Farnumber%3D7362660

* http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/login.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7414402&url=http%3A%2F%2Fieeexplore.ieee.org%2Fxpls%2Fabs_all.jsp%3Farnumber%3D7414402

* http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/login.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6663455&url=http%3A%2F%2Fieeexplore.ieee.org%2Fxpls%2Fabs_all.jsp%3Farnumber%3D6663455

* http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/login.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7337372&url=http%3A%2F%2Fieeexplore.ieee.org%2Fxpls%2Fabs_all.jsp%3Farnumber%3D7337372

* https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Moslem_Ouled_Sghaier/publication/280655680_Road_Extraction_From_Very_High_Resolution_Remote_Sensing_Optical_Images_Based_on_Texture_Analysis_and_Beamlet_Transform/links/55c0d9da08ae092e96678ff3.pdf

* http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/login.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7159022&url=http%3A%2F%2Fieeexplore.ieee.org%2Fxpls%2Fabs_all.jsp%3Farnumber%3D7159022

* http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0303243415300283

* http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2666389

* http://www.ijicic.org/ijicic-15-04045.pdf

### Original Idea

This was the general idea to start, and working with TMS tiles sort of worked (see first 50 or so commits), so DeepOSM got switched to better data:

![Deep OSM Project](https://gaiagps.mybalsamiq.com/mockups/4278030.png?key=1e42f249214928d1fa7b17cf866401de0c2af867)
